# Professional Assessment
1. Throughout the computer science program at Southern New Hampshire, I’ve realized my skill set in programming has grown exponentially. SNHU has taught me some important abilities that I can utilize throughout my career. Some of these include database management, algorithms and data structures, Security, and testing. As part of the final project assessment in the computer science program, I was tasked with choosing three principles or artifacts within software to follow and either enhance some piece of software or prove my knowledge within the key areas I chose to follow by creating a program from scratch. These three principles include Object oriented analysis and design, software security and database management through Mongo db.
2. The first artifact that I decided to undertake was the analysis and design of the objects within my application that I was creating. BecomingPrepper is the name of the application that I decided to create to prove my growth from the computer science program. I ended up using UML or Unified Modeling language to design the application from scratch. I decided to reread the UML system analysis book from Wiley. As I reread this book, I realized how much I had forgotten since my first class that covered UML and system design. It was a great refresher as I gradually designed and analyzed the system as a whole. Some of the challenges I had as I was designing the system was realizing that I hadn’t taken time to analyze some individual components in some modules as I thought I had when changes happened. This forced me to go back and remap my design document to address these small functions or modules. From this I learned that I need to take time, even as changes occur in the requirements of the system, to re analyze and design the system to include the changes. This overall helped me lay out in documentation and in my mind exactly how the system should be designed and where to start the implementation phase. 
3. The second artifact that I chose to implement was secure Coding. This includes defensive programming around arguments passed into methods, securing API endpoints via Web Token or JWT, disposing of database connections and checking for null pointers and protecting the application against would be attackers. As I undertook this aspect of the project, I wanted to make sure that not only were my methods properly defended from illegitimate arguments and securing the endpoints on my API but that all the function methods are covered by tests that prove correct handling of defensive techniques takes place in the event that wrong arguments are passed into the methods or that you can’t access an API endpoint without being authorized first. As I tackled this portion of the project, I decided to learn new technologies to help me out with the security and test portion of this artifact. The technologies that I learned were Mock, Fixture, SpecFlow for Behavior Driven Development and Json web tokens along with custom authorized attributes and filters. The biggest challenge that I underwent was learning exactly how Json web tokens were implemented. I went through roughly 20 hours of courses and googling just to find examples and testing my efforts. Ultimately, the API’s were secured. Since Software security in general is my future career, I decided to focus most of my endeavors in this portion of the project. I learned not only how to authenticate users utilizing Hashing techniques but also how to ensure the user is authorized to use these API endpoints once authenticated. This was an absolute blast attempting to come up with a clever way to authenticate and authorize users across the system. There are still some tech debt that I need to fix as the authorization token is susceptible to XSS or cross site scripting. Another piece of security I undertook was to protect my application against Denial of service attacks. I implemented a Throttle attribute that onExecution of the endpoint will verify how many requests have come through in one minute. If the number of requests is greater than the requestLimit specified per minute than a 429 Too many requests is returned, and a timeout begins of one minute before allowing more traffic through. 
4. The third and last artifact that I employed for my project was database management. I decided to use Mongo DB, a no SQL document-based database. I had recently taken a class where I learned Mongo DB. I found it intuitive and performant as I used it to create an API in my class. From this I decided it would be best to use for my BecomingPrepper application which would store images and files. By using GridFS I learned how to retrieve and add files/images to Mongo DB. There were some challenges in figuring out how GridFS is configured to work. I learned that they utilize what is called a Bucket which is used to stream input and output of files and images into the database. These files are then stored in two different collections. The file is divided into two portions. File details such as name, file type etc. Then the Bytes that make up the actual file itself and content are stored separately. These respective portions of the file are then stored into two different collections files and chunks. The image bytes that contain the content are not stored all collectively together. They are separated out into chunks of bytes that can be reassembled once retrieved from the database. 
5. My overall assessment is that I’ve learned a great deal and I know I have a lot more left to learn. However, my number one asset is my need for greater knowledge. I’m never content with the knowledge that I have. I love and respect how far I’ve come and the knowledge that I’ve gained but I can never rest knowing that there is some better or more efficient way to exercise code, implement security or alter an applications behavior to enhance usability. I believe this course has made me employable with a skillset that many would want. I believe I can help companies, governments agencies and individuals through my skillset to allow their platforms to be more secure, usable and performant. 
 
### Design And Analysis
  In order for the project to be understood and designed, I had to undergo an analysis process utilizing UML or Unified Modeling Language. This helped me design the API portion of BecomingPrepper. 
  Here below are the links to the videos as I demonstrate the analysis and design phase of this project. 
 - [First Design Session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MgYgdPEFuso)
 - [Second Design Session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FTVtyh6OuhI)


## BecomingPrepper
  Is a Web Application with an Api Service that will gradually aid ordinary citizens preparedness for emergency situations and doomsday type events, ultimately, BecomingPrepper. To aid in both the short and long term of emergency preparedness. BecomingPrepper will allow citizens to stock up on every day items such as food, water, first Aid, Ammo and track their products. Preppers will be able to Update, Add, and Delete products from their inventory as well as track their progress against a selected objective created during account registration. These objectives range from two weeks to twenty years. As their inventory grows, so too will their confidence in being prepared for the unknown. 

  Not only is this a great tracking tool for inventory needs but it is also a way to learn to live off the environment around them. There are ten categories for which preppers should stock up. Some of them are Water, Grains, Sugars, Canned Fruits and Vegetables and Dried Meats. With each product, a cooresponding image will be returned from the Mongo Database. These images are designed in a way to not only give the prepper a physical sense of what each product is, but teaches the prepper about where in the environment they can encounter these products. i.e. olive oil is natural to temperate climates such as the Mediterranean as well as areas in South America and Australia. The image returned would be able to educate the prepper about where to find the product, seasons to harvest, preparation and long term preservation.  

### Technologies
###### BackEnd
- C#
- ASP.NET Core
- Gherkin
- Mongo DB
- Grid Fs
- Specflow
- Fluent Assertions
- Fixture
- Xunit
- Serilog
- Custom Filter for throttling Requests
- JSON Web Token or JWT (Api Authorization)

###### FrontEnd
- Yet To come
